# Synaptic compensation on Hopfield network: implications for memory rehabilitation

## Paper summary
One of the hallmarks of different neurodegenerative diseases is the loss of neural cells. Horn, Rupin, Usher and Herman (1993) have demonstrated how a synaptic compensation mechanism can counteract the performance degradation that is seen in a computational model of Alzheimers' disease. In the current study, the authors investigate the effects of different implementations of synaptic compensation. These different implementations all take into account the actual magnitude of synaptic loss but vary in how these magnitudes are combined and distributed over the remaining synaptic weights.

## Simulation results
I was unable to replicate the exact method that they used. Therefore, I decided to use the implementation of Horn, Rupin, Usher and Herman (1993), and compared how their synaptic compensation mechanism compared to the best performing compensation mechanism from the current paper. An important difference between both papers is that in Horn, Rupin, Usher and Herman (1993), synaptic loss is simulated by having a fixed proportion of incoming synapses deleted for each neuron. In the current paper, a proportion of neurons is deleted. Because it is unclear how these different deletion strategies might interact with each compensation strategy, I compared the effect of these different compensation strategies for three possible deletion strategies: a fixed proportion of incoming synapses is deleted for each neuron, a random proportion of synapses is deleted, and a proportion of complete neurons are deleted. In each case, the compensation strategy from Horn, Rupin, Usher and Herman (1993) outperformed the best performing compensation strategy from the current study.
